# Xesar-Connect Kotlin Library: MQTT Communication Wrapper for EVVA Xesar Integration

The **Xesar-Connect** library is an open-source Kotlin wrapper designed to simplify MQTT communication for seamless integration of the EVVA Xesar access control system with other software applications. This library streamlines the process of exchanging data and commands between your software and the EVVA Xesar system using the MQTT protocol.

## ⚠️ Beta Notice ⚠️

Please note that Xesar-Connect is currently in beta. This means that while the library is fully functional and usable, there is a possibility of encountering issues or facing breaking changes in future releases. We appreciate your feedback and encourage you to report any problems you encounter.


## Features

- **Simplified Integration:** Xesar-Connect offers an intuitive interface that abstracts the complexities of MQTT communication, enabling developers to focus on seamlessly integrating Xesar functionality into their Kotlin applications.

- **Bidirectional Communication:** Xesar-Connect supports both dispatching commands to the Xesar system (e.g., granting access, revoking access) and receiving real-time events from the Xesar system (e.g., changes in door status, access attempts).

- **Event Subscription:** Subscribe to specific events, such as door status changes, access attempts, and system notifications. This empowers your application to promptly respond to events generated by the Xesar system.

- **Customizable:** Easily configure MQTT settings, including broker address, port, and security credentials, to align with your specific deployment environment.

- **Comprehensive Documentation:** Xesar-Connect comes complete with detailed documentation and practical usage examples to facilitate a seamless integration experience into your projects.

## Installation

You can add Xesar-Connect to your project by including it as a dependency in your Kotlin project. Simply add the following to your `build.gradle.kts` file:

```kotlin
dependencies {
    implementation("com.open200:xesar-connect:0.5.0")
}
```


## Usage

Integrating Xesar-Connect into your Kotlin project is straightforward. Here's a basic example to help you get started:

```kotlin
fun main() {

    Security.addProvider(BouncyCastleProvider())

    runBlocking {
        launch {
            val pathToZip = Path("<path-to-zip>")
            val personCreatedTopic = "xs3/1/ces/PersonCreated"

            XesarConnect.connectAndLoginAsync(Config.configureFromZip(pathToZip)).await()
                .use {api ->
                    // we are now connected to the MQTT broker and already logged in

                    // Subscribe to topics we are interested
                    api.subscribeAsync(Topics(personCreatedTopic), 2).await()
                    
                    // Create listeners to react on emitted events
                    api.on({ topic, _ -> topic.startsWith(personCreatedTopic) }) {
                        log.info { "Message received on topic ${it.topic}" }
                    }

                    api.delayUntilClose()
                }
        }
    }
}
```

For more comprehensive information and advanced usage, please refer to the [documentation](https://github.com/open200/xesar-connect/blob/main/docs/usage.md).
Also see our [Xesar-Connect-Kotlin-Demo](https://github.com/open200/xesar-connect-kotlin-demo) app 

## Building From Source

If you're a developer interested in building Xesar-Connect from source, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository: `git clone https://github.com/open200/xesar-connect.git`
2. Navigate to the project directory: `cd xesar-connect`
3. Build the library: `./gradlew build`
4. The built library JAR can be found in the `build/libs` directory.

For more developer related information, please refer to the [documentation](https://github.com/open200/xesar-connect/blob/main/docs/development.md).

## Contributing

Contributions to enhance and extend Xesar-Connect are highly appreciated! If you're interested in contributing, please review our [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/open200/xesar-connect/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Code of Conduct

Please review our [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/open200/xesar-connect/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) before participating in the project.

## License

Xesar-Connect is released under the [Apache 2.0 License](https://github.com/open200/xesar-connect/blob/main/LICENSE).

---

We trust that Xesar-Connect will simplify your EVVA Xesar integration through MQTT communication. Should you encounter any challenges or have suggestions for improvement, kindly [open an issue](https://github.com/open200/xesar-connect/issues). Thank you for embracing Xesar-Connect!

**Disclaimer:** This project is not endorsed by or affiliated with EVVA. "EVVA" and "Xesar" are trademarks of EVVA Sicherheitstechnologie GmbH.
